INTRODUCI‘ION

⁸ period. Tm literature however in which such echoes would
naturally be found, if found at all, has disappeared almost to the
last line. Itis certain too that the important and far-reaching
revolution of taste represented by the archaistic school of Fronto
had a decided effect on the tradition of the great Augustan poets.
Yet here too we must remember that the Imperial reading public
was still too large, if not too independent, to be deeply affected
as awhole by any one school, however important. On the whole
therefore itis probably safe to say that Tibullus, though stilla
popular author, uus less read than in the previous period, and was
already entering the stage of being read about, and admired from
afar-the fate, as a rule, of the world’s best books.

The march to oblivion in the third and fourth centuries was
considerably accelerated no doubt by the lack of professorial rec·
ognition, such as it was. At all events grammatica} references to
Tibullus are unusually rare, and there is nothing to show that he
was ever paid the compliment of a commentary. To be sure an
occasional echo in poets like Nemesianus, Ausonius and possibly
Paulinus Nolanus, indicates that even in this period.'l'ibullus was
still read. But he can hardly have been known to the larger read-
ing public, and least'of all, if we may believe Ammianus (28, 4,
14), to the Roman nobility. These degenerate representatives of
what had once been the most highly cultivated class in the Empire
he does not hesitate to describe as-‘detestantes ut venena,
doctrinas, Iuvenalem et Marium Maximum curatiore studio legunt, ’
nulla volumina praeter haec in profundo otio contrectantes' It
has even been urged that the reason why Hieronymus makes no
reference to Tibullus and Propertius in his Chronicle is because
he had never 'read either of them.

The last ancient author, and the first since Apuleius, to mention
our poet lsQffl’ffissafls (fifth century). His information
(see p. 181) is without warrant in previous tradition, and his
'works give no signs of a knowledge of Tibullus at first hand. A
carefnl examination of the elegies of Maximianus, written about

61

 

